
# MEAN FAQ

The time of the Single Page App has come. Web development, even before Rails, has been well served by the 3-tier architecture. A web server runs Ruby, PHP, or Python pulls data from MySQL or Postgress, and renders a mostly static HTML asset. Since 2012, with the great strides in HTML5 browser technologies, it's been very feasible to build Single Page Applications. As of 2014, it is now practical as well. Rather than sending rendered HTML for ever request, a SPA serves a bundle of static assets that contains code for the entire site. This code calls services for data via restful APIs, allowing more flexibility in a system's architecture. This approach can still be 3-tier, but the web tier handles and serves data, not HTML.

There are numerous frameworks and technologies from which to choose, for all layers of the SPA stack. One set, becoming a buzzword in itself, is the MEAN approach. A play on the LAMP acronym,  MEAN is a collection of technologies for building a SPA stack. *M*ongoDB is a schemaless, disk-backed database. *E*xpressJS is an extensible middleware based HTTP handler. *A*ngularJS is a powerful and expressive JavaScript framework. *N*odeJS is a highly asynchronous server platform written in JavaScript. The MEAN approach combines some fantastic technologies to allow development teams to focus their efforts on building applications almost entirely in JavaScript. This provides real benefits to teams in following a single set of best practices. That said, the approach is highly decoupled, and teams can swap out any piece for a more appropriate technology as needed.

Alas, in the arena of full-stack JS architectures, there is no single framework as solid as Ruby on Rails for building SPAs. This isn't a bad thing necessarily. Because the technologies for building SPAs are so easily decoupled, rather than providing a single architecture for every team to plug in to, it is better to learn where each of the pieces fit together, and how to use each effectively. This Cookbook is a collection of those best practices and techniques, taken from experience building these systems over the past few years. Taken a la cart, a team or developer can find good tutorials and info on building certain parts of their application. Taken as a whole, a team can build a full SPA stack that fits their business use case like a glove.
